Dresdner Christstollen - Dresden Christmas Stollen
 
In Germany, one of the most popular Christmas treats is Stollen. Although there are many different recipes for this sweet delicacy, the most famous stollen comes from Dresden. This classic stollen recipe is by Mimi Sheraton, from The German Cookbook, by Random House.

Ingredients:

1-1/2 cups raisins  

2 tbs. rum

1 cup chopped citron  

2 cups flour

1 cup chopped candied orange peel  

4 eggs, lightly beaten

1/2 cup rum  

4 to 7 cups flour

2 envelopes dried powdered yeast  

6 to 8 slivered blanched bitter almonds or teaspoon almond extract

1/2 cup like-warm water

1 tablespoon sugar (optional)  

1-1/2 cups chopped blanched almonds

2 cups milk  

melted butter

1 cup sugar  

granulated sugar

2 teaspoons salt  

confectioner's sugar

1-1/2 cups butter  

1 lemon rind, grated

Combine raisins, citron and candied orange peel and soak in rum for 1 hour. Drain and reserve rum. Dissolve yeast in warm water according to instructions on package, using a little sugar to speed the process if you like. Scald milk with sugar, salt and butter. When the butter has melted, stir in lemon peel, rum and almond extract (if used). Cool mixture to luke-warm. Add yeast and 2 cups of flour. Mix well and set in warm draft-free corner for about 15 to 30 minutes, or until dough blisters. Stir in lightly beaten eggs, and gradually mix in 5 to 7 cups flour until dough is soft and light but not sticky. It should be smooth enough to be handled.

Dry soaked fruit and dredge lightly with flour. Turn dough onto a floured board and knead, gradually working in fruit, almonds and bitter almonds if you use them. Knead dough until it blisters and is smooth and elastic. Gather in a ball and place in a lightly floured bowl. Brush melted butter. Cover loosely with a thin kitchen towel and set in warm draft-free corner about 1 hour, or until it has doubled in bulk. Punch dough down and cut into three equal pieces.

Set aside to rest 10 minutes. Roll or flatten each third of dough into an oval 3/4 inch thick. Brush top of each with melted butter and sprinkle with a little sugar. Fold each lengthways, not quite in half, so that edges are within 1/2 inch to 1 inch of meeting; pinch closed. Place loaves on buttered baking sheet or jelly-roll pan. Brush with melted butter and place in warm, draft-free corner again so they can rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.

Preheat oven to 425 F. Bake loaves 10 minutes, then turn heat down to 350 F. Bake about 45 minutes, or until loaves are crisp golden brown. Brush with butter and sprinkle generously with confectioner's sugar while warm. Wrap tightly in foil and keep in a cold room or other, non-refrigerated cool place for 2 to 3 weeks before serving. Then, sprinkle with more confectioner's sugar, cut into 1/4-inch slices as needed - and enjoy. (Will keep for weeks if wrapped and stored in a cool place.)

